["Hello" message to Fiskbit about my falling sand game idea](https://discord.com/channels/352252932953079811/648559885037993994/1150247008301486133):
> Hello! I've read up a lot and got an idea of what I will be programming.
> I will be making a simple falling sand game clone, inspired by DAN-BALL's Powder Game https://dan-ball.jp/en/javagame/dust/
> I am using background tiles for the sand particles, where each 8x8 tile's four corners represents one sand particle.
> Keeping in mind that my goal is to have as many sand particles falling down without causing slowdown as possible, how do you recommend I update the background tiles efficiently?
Fiskbit's mention of Pubby's background trickery:
> There's a game called Lunar Limit from several years ago that used background tiles for 4x4 pixel bullets. What you're trying to do reminds me a lot of that. It might be worth reading the writeup to get some inspiration. https://ldjam.com/events/ludum-dare/38/lunar-limit/lunar-limit-technical-part-1
> Hmm, would be amusing to have a very, very limited version of this Flash game for the NES, and it'd present an actual puzzle game, rather than just a simulation. An idea for someone else maybe, cause I just want to focus on the falling sand game aspect.
https://youtu.be/avKvxf-7mhU?si=kgAzEHUKIrjzpXHc
> Ooh! Instead of using your palette trick to smear the simulation across two frames, it'd also be possible to use it to have 3 types of particles in the game! I think I'd get rid of sand, and have water, wood, and lava. When water touches lava it could turn into steam, which'd visually just look like the water particle is flying up, since we don't have the palette room for a different looking steam particle, and then turn back into falling water again once it bumps into something above it. Wood being on fire would emit floating lava particles! Wood wouldn't be the only particle that doesn't have gravity.
> Man, I wish I didn't have to choose between having smearing to get twice the visual framerate, or having several other particle types. Any idea on how I could have both?
> The one thing that has tripped me up at least four times by now in the past 1.5 weeks of being a newbie NES program developer is how if you forget to put a # in front of your values, it gets interpreted as an address, rather than an immediate value. It's partially caused by some immediate values not needing a # in front of them, at least when programming with cl65 syntax, since .res bytes for example don't need a # in front of them! https://discord.com/channels/352252932953079811/648559885037993994/1151665080900010025
